---
layout: post
title: Notes About Rings and Modules 
categories: math
---
Reading Notes： Atiyah - Introduction to Commutative Algebra - Chapter01 and Chapter02

## Prime Ideals and Maximal Ideals

<blockquote class="proposition">
<ul>
<li>\( \mathfrak{a} \) is a prime ideal of \( A \) \( \Leftrightarrow \) \(A/\mathfrak{a}\) is an integral domain.</li>
<li>\( \mathfrak{a} \) is a maximal ideal of \( A\) \( \Leftrightarrow \) \(A/\mathfrak{a}\) is a field.</li>
</ul>
</blockquote>
It is clear through this proposition that a maximal ideal is definitely a prime ideal too, but a prime ideal is not necessary to be a maximal ideal.
<blockquote class="definition">
A ring \(A\) with exactly one maximal ideal \(\mathfrak{m}\) is called a <i>local ring</i>. The field \(k=A/\mathfrak{m}\) is called the <i>residue field</i> of \(A\). 
</blockquote>
<blockquote class="proposition">
<ul>
<li>Let \(A\) be a ring and \(\mathfrak{m}\neq (1) \) an ideal of \(A\) such that every \(x\in A-\mathfrak{m}\) is a unit in \(A\). Then \(A\) is a local ring and \(\mathfrak{m}\) its maximal ideal.</li> 
<li>Let \(A\) be a ring and \(\mathfrak{m}\) a maximal ideal of \(A\), such that every element of \(1+\mathfrak{m}\) is a unit in \(A\). Then \(A\) is a local ring.</li>
</ul>
</blockquote>
<blockquote class="proof">
The first item is obvious, so we prove the second item directly. Let $x\in A-\mathfrak{m}$ and suppose that $x$ is not a unit, since $\mathfrak{m}$ is a maximal ideal the ring $A$ is generated by $x$ and $\mathfrak{m}$. Then we have $1=ax+by$ for some $a,b\in A$ and $y\in \mathfrak{m}$, hence $ax=1-by$, shows that $x$ is a unit. Now we have proved the second item by using the first item.
</blockquote>
<blockquote class="definition">
The <i>nilradical</i> of $A$ is the set of all nilpotent elemnts. It is denoted by $\mathfrak{R}$.
</blockquote>
 It is easy to verify that it's an ideal of $A$. $A/\mathfrak{R}$ does not have none zero nilpotent element. 
<blockquote class="proposition">
The nilradical of $A$ is the intersection of all the prime ideals of $A$.
</blockquote>
<blockquote class="proof">
If $f\in A$ is a nilpotent element and if $\mathfrak{p}$ is a prime ideal, then $f^n=0\in\mathfrak{p}$ for some $n>0$, hence $f\in\mathfrak{p}$.<br/>
Conversely, suppose $f$ is not nilpotent. Let $\Sigma$ be the set of ideals $\mathfrak{a}$ with the property 
$$
n>0\Rightarrow f^n\in\mathfrak{a}.
$$
Then $\Sigma$ is not empty because $0\in\Sigma$. Zorn's lemma can be applied to the set $\Sigma$, ordered by inclusion, and therefore $\Sigma$ has a maximal element. Let $\mathfrak{p}$ be a maximal element of $\Sigma$. We shall show that  $\mathfrak{p}$ is a prime ideal. Let $x,y\notin\mathfrak{p}$. Then the ideals $\mathfrak{p}+(x)$ and $\mathfrak{p}+(y)$ strictly contain $\mathfrak{p}$ and therefore do not belong to $\Sigma$, hence
$$
f^m\in\mathfrak{p}+(x), f^n\in\mathfrak{p}+(y)
$$ 
for some $m,n$. It follows that $f^{n+m}\in\mathfrak{p}+(xy)$,hence  the ideal is not in $\Sigma$ and therefore $xy\notin\mathfrak{p}$ Hence we have a prime ideal $\mathfrak{p}$ such that $f\notin\mathfrak{p}$, so that $f$ is not in the intersection of all the prime ideals of $A$.
</blockquote>
<blockquote class="definition">
The <i>Jacobson radical</i> $\mathfrak{R}$ of $A$ is defined to be the intersection of all the maximal ideal of $A$.
</blockquote>
The Jacobson radical has the following equvalent property:
<blockquote class="proposition">
$x\in\mathfrak{R} \Leftrightarrow 1-xy$ is a unit in $A$ for all $y\in A$.
</blockquote>
<blockquote class="proof">
$\Rightarrow$: Suppose $1-xy$ is not a unit, then it is contained in some maximal ideal $\mathfrak{m}$. If $x\in\mathfrak{R}\subset\mathfrak{m}$ then $xy$ is in $\mathfrak{m}$, hence $1\in\mathfrak{m}$, which is absurd.<br />
$\Leftarrow$: Suppose $x\notin \mathfrak{R}$, then there exists a maximal ideal $\mathfrak{m}$ that $x\notin\mathfrak{m}$, then $x$ and $\mathfrak{m}$ generate the whole ring $A$, hence $u+xy=1$ for some $y\in A$ and $u\in\mathfrak{m}$, hence $u=1-xy$ is not a unit. 
</blockquote>